# Injuries

Characters that have their health reduced to 0 during combat will go into shock, and pass out. Characters go into shock because of a critical injury that they received in combat. The nature of the injury is revealed at the end of combat by drawing a card from their deck. There are 4 injury types with intensities ranging from 1-10. The suit of the card determines the type of injury while the value of the card drawn determines its intensity. 

The intensity of the injury can be reduced through the use of various methods. Resting in a town and paying a doctor or miracle 

If an armless or legless player draws a card that inflicts injuries to the respective body part, they discard that card and draw again.

## Intensity of Injuries

- 1-3: A light injury that wont affect the character very much or even at all
- 4-6: A moderate injury that requires attention soon. Will usually hinder the character in some noticeable way
- 7-9: A major injury that requires immediate medical attention. Will cripple the character significantly 
- 10: The characters body part is borderline destroyed. Characters who have their head or torso in this state no longer pass out in combat but instead just die outright.

## Types of injuries

### Heart: Torso
This type of injury will can be something like having the body be poisoned, broken ribs, etc. This kinds of injuries can inflict statuses like reduced max stamina, chance to be stunned on hit, or reduced ability to lift
- Lungs
- Spine
- Ribs

### Clubs: Head
This type of injury could be like a concussion, scratched eyes, etc. These kinds of injuries usually inflict reduced ranges of abilities, chance of missing, or being dazed
- Brain Injury
- Eye Damage
- Broken Jaw
- Skull
- Ear Damage
- Throat/Neck

### Spades: Arms/Hand/Fingers
This type of injury often is a broken or dislocated arm. these kinds of injuries usually reduce damage delt with weapons, dificulty with interacting with object or picking up things, or even chance of missing with casting spells. Intensities that exeed 10 mean the character no longer has arms.
- Broken
- Crushed
- Dismembered
- Torn Muscles

### Diamonds: Legs/Feet/Toes
This type of injury can be something like a broken bone or a dislocated ankle. These kinds of injuries usually reduce the characters movement abilities, or sometimes even the ability to stand at all. Intensities that exeed 10 means the character no longer has legs.
- Broken
- Crushed
- Dismembered
- Torn Muscles

